
This project started in 2012 at Federal Institute for Education, Science and 
Technology of Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, Brazil.
It consists of a system for project and execution of trajectories in a 5 axis
welding manipulator. Below follows the Abstract of a Master's Thesis on the subject,
by Rafael Pereira Pires <rafaelpp.inf@gmail.com>

Industrial robots and welding manipulators play an essential role to the 
industry by automating, with quality, speed and repeatability, a manual slow 
and unhealthy process. Such importance is reflected in the equipment diversity 
offered by the manufacturers. These devices, however, still have high 
acquisition and maintenance costs, besides some limitations in their 
functionality. This dissertation proposes a computational system for welding 
executions on a low cost Cartesian manipulator with mixed kinematic chain, 
designed and built entirely in an academic environment. At the system’s heart 
is the offering of a range of welding torch oscillations that is driven by a 
mechanical arm, along with the possibility of path corrections while running, 
and also changing the welding source parameters in sync with the oscillation. 
The user can choose among trajectories without oscillation, with longitudinal 
or transverse oscillations and combinations of both, besides being able of 
creating custom oscillations. All of them can be arranged along an arbitrary 
linear axis within the work area, and along a circular axis. During execution, 
the operator can correct oscillation geometry parameters, path positioning and 
running speed when realizing the occurrence of deviations caused by arc heat, 
vibrations or joints preparation defects. In addition, it is possible to 
determine different welding parameters according to the oscillation, thus 
enabling the testing of approaches that seek better results in joining and 
coating welds. The system design strategies, algorithms and mathematical models 
have been confirmed empirically by conducting trajectory plots and welding 
trials. The prototype proved to be suitable and able to perform welding 
procedures either in industry, in the field, and in technological education 
institutions, given its great flexibility.

